JSON Querying documentation (#636)
directus/docs: content/guides/04.connect/7.json-queries.md

---
title: JSON Queries
description: Quickstart for extracting and filtering values inside JSON fields with the json() function and _json filter operator.
---

> Directus gives you two ways of working with JSON fields in queries:

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
Directus provides two ways of working with JSON fields in queries:
```

> - **`json(field, path)`** extracts a value from a JSON document. Use it in `fields`, `sort`, and `alias`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`json(field, path)`**: A selection function to extract a value from a JSON document. It can be used in the `fields`, `sort`, and `alias` parameters.
```

> - **`_json`** filters items by values inside a JSON document. Use it in `filter`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`_json`**: A filter operator that lets you filter records based on values within a JSON document. It can be used as an operator in the `filter` parameter.
```

	]
}
```

```json [GraphQL]
{
	"data": {
		"articles": [
			{
				"id": 1,
				"title": "An Article",
				"metadata_func": { "json": "blue" }
			}
		]
	}
}
```

::

For REST and the SDK, the extracted value is returned under the alias `{field}_{path}_json`, with `.`, `[`, and `]` replaced by underscores.

## Filtering with `_json`

**Operator Syntax:**
```
{
	"field": {
		"_json": {
			"path": {
				"_operator": value
			}
		}
	}
}
```

**Example:**

Find articles where the `color` key inside `metadata` equals `"blue"`:

::code-group

```http [REST]
GET /items/articles
	?filter={"metadata":{"_json":{"color":{"_eq":"blue"}}}}
```

```js [SDK]
import { createDirectus, rest, readItems } from '@directus/sdk';
const directus = createDirectus('https://directus.example.com').with(rest());

const result = await directus.request(
	readItems('articles', {
		filter: {
			metadata: {
				_json: { color: { _eq: 'blue' } },
			},
		},
	})
);
```

```graphql [GraphQL]
query {
	articles(filter: { metadata: { _json: { color: { _eq: "blue" } } } }) {
		id
		title
	}
}
```

::

Response:

```json
{
	"data": [
		{ "id": 1, "title": "An Article" },
		{ "id": 4, "title": "Another Article" }
	]
}
```

> The `_json` operator supports most filter operators, with the exception of itself, geometric, regex, and relational operators (`_json`, `_intersects`, `_intersects_bbox`, `_regex`, `_some`, and `_none`).

Reviewer: This is worth a warning callout

See the [reference](/guides/connect/json-queries-reference#supported-inner-operators) for more details.

## Path Notation

Paths use dot notation for object keys and bracket notation for array indices.

| Pattern | Example | Meaning |
|---|---|---|
| `key` | `color` | Top-level object key |
| `a.b.c` | `settings.theme.color` | Nested object keys |
| `[n]` | `tags[0]` | Array element at index `n` |
| `a[n].b` | `items[0].name` | Mixed object/array access |

Wildcards (`*`, `[*]`) among other special characters are not supported. See the [reference](/guides/connect/json-queries-reference#path-notation) for the full list.

## More information

The [JSON Queries Reference](/guides/connect/json-queries-reference) covers:

- Extracting multiple paths in one request
- Relational queries (M2O, O2M, M2A)
- Paths with dots or brackets in GraphQL
- Combining conditions with `_and` / `_or`
- Depth limits and SDK type safety

> - Database-specific behavior (PostgreSQL, SQLite, MSSQL, Oracle)

Reviewer: We can probably simplify this to
```suggestion
For advanced usage, expanded explanations etc, see [JSON Queries Reference](/guides/connect/json-queries-reference)
```
